I'm Chris Kenny. I'm a PhD candidate at Harvard University.
And today I'm going to talk to you about how our research team,
the Alarm Project, uses templates within an R package to structure our
research so that it's in a collaborative and reproducible way.
Primarily, I'm a political scientist, and what I work on is algorithmic
redistricting. Now, if you're not familiar with the concept of
redistricting, it's the simple process that's very political and very
argumentative about how you separate a state or region like a county
into different districts so that you control the way that voters
translate their voice into power. And the way that this can look,
you know, we'll give some red and blue districts, Republican and
Democratic districts. What our research team works on is how we
generate large samples, thousands and hundreds of thousands of
alternative plans that we can use to evaluate it. Now, our goal in
this is to use redistricting algorithms to evaluate each state's
redistricting process. So we can look at this and say, this works or
this doesn't, this is gerrymandering, a kind of negative thing that
can happen here. The problem we often run into is that social science
data is extremely messy. This type of data that we're using is coming
from thousands of different people across the United States that often
are not actually trained to do the things that they're doing, right?
You'll have people that just kind of end up in a job where they run
their whole county's election system and have never considered that
before. So pretty much every place needs manual intervention. To fix
that, we enlist labor, right? We enlist our very smart undergrads who
help us and help us work on this. Now, this introduces our new
problem, which is that undergrads are pretty much by definition
inexperienced, right? We're trying to push them into doing research
and they're ambitious, but they need to learn both R packages and
Git and all sorts of other tools. So we want to teach them in a way
that doesn't overwhelm them. So the particular solution that our team
has ended up with is to place the project within an R package. And
I'll make that concrete. So senior members of the team, grad students
and faculty, set up a simple package. DevTools create just like you
would normally do. And then we set up all of the research tools as if
it's part of that package. And that includes the project management,
which we'll go into. This means that when your junior members, those
undergraduates or new grad students set up and want to start using
this, all they have to do is run DevTools load all and they get
everything into their environment. This allows us to set up things that
require no new tools. And it's going to look very familiar. So if you
see our good old friend RStudio's file explorer, the package stuff is
the normal package stuff. And all we're doing really is adding a few
more folders and a few more functions that let us do the research
stuff. Stuff being the technical word, of course. So what we're really
doing, then, is using the R package to handle all of the project
management part. And we create a series of functions. So, for example,
if you want to create a new analysis, there's an analysis function. Or
if you want to set up a pull request on GitHub, we automate that. Things
like the dataverse, which in the social sciences is a big place to share
data that you've created. Or because, again, these are inexperienced
people that we're trying to teach how to do research, we want to be able
to peer review their work internally. And so we set up a bunch of
functions that handle that. These can be tested and documented so that
the students don't have to learn anything new. They can just use the
tools that they're already seeing in their classes. You know, what this
looks like is if you run into RStudio, you could run something like
DevTools load all. And then here I'm showing you just running an
analysis for the state of Delaware, DE, for the 2000 cycle. And when you
hit run, it creates all sorts of files, which is where all of these
templates come in. We can standardize, then, what the inputs are, what the
outputs. So that little bit of manual intervention doesn't go crazy.
And, of course, we want to be able to see this and share this. So the other
part of these workflows is to actually validate this. And because our team
uses GitHub, so, for example, for the 2020 Washington analysis, what we
create and set up is an automated set of diagnostics that all they have to
do is copy and paste into GitHub once they're happy with it. And this is
one of those things that to us works well, but it's not perfect. It's very
flexible and helps the students get in at a very basic level. We develop
too many R packages as a team. And so it allows us to keep those types of
things updated naturally without using things like our environment. It pairs
very well with Git. The cons, of course, a determined user can screw it up as
they please, and it doesn't handle everything. So with that, if you want to
see it in action and see how we use it, you can see our GitHub or send me a
message on my website. There's a package coming soon.